General edits to Slack integration article (#837)
apollographql/apollo: graph-manager-docs/source/slack-integration.md

sidebar_title: Slack
---

> Apollo Graph Manager can send notifications about your data graph to your team's Slack workspace. This enables you to act on any potential issues as soon as they arise.

Reviewer: Restricting this to "potential issues" here doesn't make as much sense with the addition of change notifications. How about something a little bit more generic?
```suggestion
Apollo Graph Manager can send notifications about your data graph to your team's Slack workspace. This enables you to stay up to date on changes to your schema and your graph's performance as soon as they happen.
```

These notifications include:

* [Daily reports](#daily-reports) of your graph's request rate, error rate, and latency
* [Schema change notifications](#schema-change-notifications) whenever your graph's schema is updated
* [Performance alerts](#performance-alerts) whenever a metric such as error percentage or request latency exceeds a particular threshold (this feature requires a [paid plan](https://www.apollographql.com/pricing/))

## Setup

> If you don't have a Graph Manager account yet, [get started](getting-started/).

### Connecting a Slack channel

You configure the Slack integration from the [Graph Manager UI](https://engine.apollographql.com):

1. Select the graph you want to configure Slack notifications for.
2. Open the graph's Integrations page in the left nav.
3. In the Reporting Channels section at the bottom of the Integrations page, click **Configure Slack Channel**. The following dialog appears:

    <img class="screenshot" src="./img/integrations/configure-slack-integration.jpg" alt="Modal to set up Slack integration"></img>

> 4. Specify the name of the Slack channel you want to push notifications to. 

Reviewer: Should we recommend starting the name with a `#` or too minute a detail?

Author: Hmm. It looks like the name of this can be _anything_. It is entirely the webhook URL that determines the channel that's posted to. I'll updated this language.

## Daily reports

Graph Manager sends your graph's daily report around 9am in your specified time zone. The report provides a high-level summary of what your GraphQL API delivered in the previous day:

<img src="./img/integrations/slack-report.png" alt="Slack daily report" class="screenshot"></img>

### Acting on report data

The daily report provides an actionable summary of what's happened in your API over the last 24 hours. Here’s how you can use it to identify issues:

*  **Request rate:** This shows you how many queries are hitting your server every minute, along with a list of the most popular operations. If you see a significant dip in this value, it might mean that queries aren’t able to reach your server, or that a particular client is down.
*  **p95 service time:** An operation's p95 response time indicates that 95% of that operation's executions complete _faster_ than the reported value. You can use this to identify that your API is overloaded and users are seeing long loading delays, or to find out which queries are taking the longest to run. This is often connected to UI performance, so a 500ms query probably means some part of your UI is taking that long to display.

> *  **Error percentage:** This shows you how many of your GraphQL requests produce an error result. Spikes in errors might be the result of an underlying back-end malfunction. You can also see which of your operations are most error-prone.

Reviewer: Should we also mention the list of operations with the highest error percentage? Curious why it was included in the first bullet point but not the subsequent.

## Schema change notifications

> Graph Manager can notify your Slack channel whenever changes are made to your graph's registered schema. These changes include the addition or removal of types, fields, and directives:

Reviewer 2: the second sentence sounds like it's saying that we limit the trigger to additions and removals but it also triggers on deprecations and update of fields or types like `Int!` -> `Int`. I'm not sure how to word this better but maybe we can just remove the sentence entirely or add more examples? what do you think :)

<img class="screenshot" src="./img/integrations/schema-notification.jpg" alt="Schema notification Slack message."></img>

You can configure separate change notifications for each [variant](schema-registry/#managing-environments-with-variants) of your graph.

## Performance alerts

> > Performance alerts require a [paid plan](https://www.apollographql.com/pricing/).

Reviewer: Can we mention that they're also an experimental feature?

You can configure notifications that are triggered on the performance data of your graph, like error percentages and request latencies. This is particularly useful for detecting anomalies, especially around releases. Notifications can be configured to monitor the following metrics for either your entire GraphQL service or individual operations:

- **Request rate:**  requests per minute
- **Request duration:** p50/p95/p99 service time
- **Error rate:** errors per minute
- **Error percentage:** the number of requests with errors, divided by total
  requests

> The triggers you set up are evaluated on a rolling five-minute window. For example, you can configure a notification to trigger when an operation's error rate exceeds 5%. In production, if 6 out of 100 requests result in an error during the last five minutes, the alert will trigger with an error rate of 6%. When the error rate falls back below 5%, your notification will resolve. Here's an example of what the notification looks like:

Reviewer: [Out of scope] It would be nice to explain that alerts are done for _operation names_ instead of _operation IDs_

Reviewer: [Additionally out of scope and also weird] It would be nice to explain that the "All operations" alert actually _excludes_ any operations that you have "overridden" the alert for _for that specific metric_. For instance, if you are alerting on the error percentage of "error percentage" for operation name "foo", the alert you have set up for "error percentage" on "all operations" will be ~all operations~ any operation excluding foo.

Not, uh, celebrating this, but it **is** the state of reality (and out of scope)
